September 20, 2024
Bank of Japan
Statement on Monetary Policy
1. At the Monetary Policy Meeting held today, the Policy Board of the Bank of Japan decided, by
a unanimous vote, to set the following guideline for money market operations for the
intermeeting period:
The Bank will encourage the uncollateralized overnight call rate to remain at around 0.25
percent.
2. Japan's economy has recovered moderately, although some weakness has been seen in part.
Overseas economies have grown moderately on the whole. Exports and industrial production
have been more or less flat. With corporate profits improving, business fixed investment has
been on a moderate increasing trend. The employment and income situation has improved
moderately. Private consumption has been on a moderate increasing trend despite the impact
of price rises and other factors. Housing investment has been relatively weak. Public
investment has been more or less flat. Financial conditions have been accommodative. On the
price front, the year-on-year rate of increase in the consumer price index (CPI, all items less
fresh food) has been in the range of 2.5-3.0 percent recently, as services prices have continued
to rise moderately, reflecting factors such as wage increases, although the effects of a pass-
through to consumer prices of cost increases led by the past rise in import prices have waned.
Inflation expectations have risen moderately.
Japan's economy is likely to keep growing at a pace above its potential growth rate, with
overseas economies continuing to grow moderately and as a virtuous cycle from income to
spending gradually intensifies against the background of factors such as accommodative
financial conditions. While the effects of the pass-through to consumer prices of cost increases
led by the past rise in import prices are expected to wane, the year-on-year rate of increase in
the CPI (all items less fresh food) is projected to be pushed up through fiscal 2025 by factors
such as a dissipation of the effects of the government's measures pushing down CPI inflation.
Meanwhile, underlying CPI inflation is expected to increase gradually, since it is projected that
the output gap will improve and that medium- to long-term inflation expectations will rise with
a virtuous cycle between wages and prices continuing to intensify. In the second half of the
1

projection period of the July 2024 Outlook for Economic Activity and Prices, it is likely to be
at a level that is generally consistent with the price stability target.
Concerning risks to the outlook, there remain high uncertainties surrounding Japan's economic
activity and prices, including developments in overseas economic activity and prices,
developments in commodity prices, and domestic firms' wage- and price-setting behavior.
Under these circumstances, it is necessary to pay due attention to developments in financial
and foreign exchange markets and their impact on Japan's economic activity and prices. In
particular, with firms' behavior shifting more toward raising wages and prices recently,
exchange rate developments are, compared to the past, more likely to affect prices.
2

Reference
Meeting hours:
Thursday, September 19: 14:00-15:41
Friday, September 20: 9:00-11:45
Policy Board members present:
UEDA Kazuo, Chairman (Governor)
HIMINO Ryozo (Deputy Governor)
UCHIDA Shinichi (Deputy Governor)
ADACHI Seiji
NAKAMURA Toyoaki
NOGUCHI Asahi
NAKAGAWA Junko
TAKATA Hajime
TAMURA Naoki
[Others present]
September 19
From the Ministry of Finance:
TERAOKA Mitsuhiro, Deputy Vice-Minister for Policy Planning and Coordination
(14:00-15:41)
From the Cabinet Office:
HAYASHI Sachihiro, Vice-Minister for Policy Coordination (14:00-15:41)
September 20
From the Ministry of Finance:
AKAZAWA Ryosei, State Minister of Finance (9:00-11:29, 11:34-11:45)
From the Cabinet Office:
HAYASHI Sachihiro, Vice-Minister for Policy Coordination (9:00-10:42)
SHINDO Yoshitaka, Minister of State for Economic and Fiscal Policy
(10:43-11:29, 11:34-11:45)
Release dates and times:
Statement on Monetary Policy -- Friday, September 20 at 11:52
Summary of Opinions -- Tuesday, October 1 at 8:50
Minutes of the Monetary Policy Meeting -- Wednesday, November 6 at 8:50